Facial Action Coding System                                                          約 7 languages ン

Article Talk                                        Read Edit View history Tools マ

 

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

The Facial Action Coding System (FACS) is a system to taxonomize human faclal
movements by their appearance on the face, based on a system originally developed by a
Swedish anatomist named Carl-Herman Hjortsj6.[和 tt was later adopted by Paul Ekman and
Wallace V Friesen, and published in 1978.!2] Ekman, Friesen, and Joseph C. Hager published

hieenlaponeurost

 

a significant update to FACS in 2002.3] Movements of individual facial muscles are encoded       nePy
by the FACS from slight different instant changes in facial appearance.!] It is a common          "TORFd20
standard to systematically categorize the physical expression of emotions, and it has proven       SS
useful to psychologists and to animators. Due to subjectivity and time consumption issues,        Ocsipmofonale

the FACS has been established as a computed automated system that detects faces in             0

videos, extracts the geometrical features of the faces, and then produces temporal profiles of      Okusris ors
each facial movement.和1

Background [edit]

 

In 2009, a study was conducted to study spontaneous facial expressions in sighted and blind
judo athletes. They discovered that many facial expressions are innate and not visually
leamed.[5]

Uses [edit]

Using the FACS[6] human coders can manually code nearly any anatomically possible facial expression,
deconstructing it into the specific "action units" (AU) and their temporal segments that produced the
expression. As AUs are independent of any interpretation, they can be used for any higher order
decision making process including recognition of basic emotions, or pre-programmed commands for an
ambient intelligent environment. The FACS manual is over 500 pages in length and provides the AUs,
as well as Ekman's interpretation of their meanindS.

   

Blind athlete expressing joyin 史
athletic competition. The fact that
unsighted persons use the same
expressions as sighted people

The FACS defines AUs, as contractions or relaxations of one or more muscles. It also defines a number      shows that expressions are innate.
of "action descriptors" which differ from AUs in that the authors of the FACS have not specified the
muscular basis for the action and have not distinguished specific behaviors as precisely as they have for the AUS.

For example, the FACS can be used to distinguish two types of smiles as follows:[7]

* Insincere and voluntary Pan-Am smile: contraction of zygo77a0C 77g7O7 alone
* Sincere and involuntary Duchenne smile: contraction of zygo/7a0C 37O7 and inferior part of orの/Cu/g/7S Oo応

Although the labeling of expressions currently requires trained experts, researchers have had some success in using computers to
automatically identify the FACS codes.[] Computer graphical face models, such as Artnatomy, allow expressions to be artificially posed by
setting the desired action units.

The use of the FACS has been proposed for use in the analysis of depression,[31 and the measurement of pain in patients unable to express
themselves verbally. 9

The FACS is designed to be self-instructional. People can learn the technique from a number of sources including manuals and
workshops,[1] and obtain certification through testing.F2] The original FACS has been modified to analyze facial movements in several
non-human primates, namely chimpanzees,H3] rhesus macaques,[14] gibbons and siamangs,[5] and orangutans.H6] More recently, it was
developed also for domestic species, including dogs,け7 horses[18] and cats.H31 Similarly to the human FACS, the animal FACS has manuals
available online for each species with the respective certification tests.[29]

Thus, the FACS can be used to compare facial repertoires across species due to its anatomical basis. A study conducted by Vick and others
(2006) suggests that the FACS can be modified by taking differences in underlying morphology into account. Such considerations enable a
comparison of the homologous facial movements present in humans and chimpanzees, to show that the facial expressions of both species
result from extremely notable appearance changes. The development of FACS tools for different species allows the objective and anatomical
study of facial expressions in communicative and emotional contexts. Furthermore, a cross-species analysis of facial expressions can help to
answer interesting questions, such as which emotions are uniquely human.1

The Emotional Facial Action Coding System (EMFACS)[22] and the Facial Action Coding System Affect Interpretation Dictionary
(FACSAID)23] consider only emotion-related facial actions. Examples of these are:

Fmotion    Actionunits 。 る
